OSDOCS-5275: Updated VSphere platform specification (#55767)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/installation-vsphere-regions-zones.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//* installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-customizations.adoc
//* installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-network-customizations.adoc
//* installing_vsphere/installing-vsphere.adoc
//* installing-vsphere-network-customizations.adoc
//* installing-restricted-networks-installer-provisioned-vsphere
//* installing-restricted-networks-vsphere.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="installation-vsphere-regions-zones_{context}"]

> = VMware vSphere regions and zones

Author: Updated to `VMware vSphere region and zone enablement`

> You can install an {product-title} cluster in a vSphere environment that consists of multiple datacenters running in a single VMware vCenter. 

Author: Thanks, great context. Updated.

By specifying multiple datacenters to run in a single VMware vCenter, you can reduce the risk of a hardware failure or network outage causing your cluster to fail.

You can also specify multiple regions and zones on a cluster after installation. 

The following list describes terms associated with defining zones and regions for your cluster:

> * Failure domain: Establishes the relationships between a region and zone. You define a failure domain by using vCenter objects, such as a `datastore` object. A failure domain defines the vCenter location for {product-title} cluster nodes.

Author: Hi @bscott-rh . Are you OK to chime in on this discussion?

* Region: Specifies a vCenter datacenter. You define a region by using a tag from a created tag category, such as `openshift-region`. 
* Zone: Specifies a vCenter cluster. You define a region by using a tag from from a created tag category, such as `openshift-zone`. 

> 

Reviewer: While you do define region and zone, I think it would be helpful to use an example to illustrate it further.

- Maybe a 3 column table that details example Datacenters, Clusters, Tags. Example of how this can be done using spanned columns (step 4) [1]. Happy to discuss.
- Also - not sure who are official graphics person is, but it would be great to actually get a diagram into the doc, similar to that of slide 5 [2]. I definitely would not gate this work on a diagram, but it would be a nice to have, even if it comes after GA as an enhancement. I suggest posting to `team-ocp-docs` to ask about requesting a diagram.

[1]https://53645--docspreview.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/installing/install_config/configuring-firewall.html#configuring-firewall_configuring-firewall
[2] https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1RdRioExW6oAbgfK0DWytR-YHXES2DlHZBpm7x8DTnis/edit#slide=id.g16c2541cbdc_0_0

Author: I created a two-tier table. Not sure if a description column would be worthwhile given the definition list/callout list under the default sample config in another section.

[NOTE]
====
If you plan on specifying more than one failure domain in your `install-config.yaml` file, you must create tag categories, zone tags, and region tags in advance of creating the configuration file.
====

> For {product-title} {product-version}, the default `install-config.yaml` file includes `vcenters` and `failureDomains` fields, so that you can choose to specify multiple datacenters, region, and zone information for your cluster. You can leave these fields blank if you want to install an {product-title} cluster in a vSphere environment that consists of single datacenter running in a VMware vCenter.

Author: Moved to line 20 of file.

> [NOTE]

Reviewer: I plan on proposing the the content around defining regions and zones be broken into a separate procedure module., In light of that comment, I think it might be OK to remove this note entirely.

====
The default `install-config.yaml` file configuration from the previous release of {product-title} is deprecated. You can continue to use the deprecated default configuration, but the `openshift-installer` will prompt you with a warning message that indicates the use of deprecated fields in the configuration file. 
====

> The concept of defining zones and regions for your cluster relies on the creation of vCenter tags. Each tag is attached to a vCenter object. Each vCenter object associates with a region and zone. 

Author: Yes, good point. Updated.

> The following sequence of steps outlines an example of installing an {product-title} cluster in a vSphere environment that consists of multiple datacenters running in a single VMware vCenter. The procedure assumes that you followed the installer-provisioned infrastructure path. 

Author: Added a prereq for the install file.

[IMPORTANT]
====
The example uses the `govc` command. The `govc` command is an open-source command available from VMware; it is not available from Red Hat. The Red Hat support team does not maintain the `govc` command. Instructions for downloading and installing `govc` are found on the VMware documentation website
====

.Example procedure

. Use the `govc` command-line tool to create two vCenter tag categories named `openshift-region` and `openshift-zone`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ govc tags.category.create -d "OpenShift region" openshift-region

$ govc tags.category.create -d "OpenShift zone" openshift-zone
----

. Create the `us-east` and `us-west` region tags:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ govc tags.create -c openshift-region us-east

Author: Updated for a blend of user-replaced values and examples.

Hi @jcpowermac . To clarify, the forward clash before `<datacenter> is needed?

Also, does `vcs-mdcnc-workload-1` refer to the first cluster? I need to define a less-prescriptive value for this code entity.

$ govc tags.create -c openshift-region us-west
----

. Create four zone tags:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ govc tags.create -c openshift-zone us-east-1a

$ govc tags.create -c openshift-zone us-east-2a

$ govc tags.create -c openshift-zone us-east-3a

$ govc tags.create -c openshift-zone us-west-1a
----

. Attach region tags to vCenter datacenter objects:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ govc tags.attach -c openshift-region us-east /datacenter-1

$ govc tags.attach -c openshift-region us-west /datacenter-2
----

. Attach the zone tags to the vCenter datacenter objects:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ govc tags.attach -c openshift-zone us-east-1a /datacenter-1/host/vcs-mdcnc-workload-1

$ govc tags.attach -c openshift-zone us-east-2a /datacenter-1/host/vcs-mdcnc-workload-2

$ govc tags.attach -c openshift-zone us-east-3a /datacenter-1/host/vcs-mdcnc-workload-3

$ govc tags.attach -c openshift-zone us-west-1a /datacenter-2/host/vcs-mdcnc-workload-4
----

. Create the `install-config.yaml` file and configure the file to support operating multiple datacenters in a vSphere center. The following example does not show a complete sample `install-config.yaml` file.

> +

Author: Excellent example. Implemented similar structure for my procedure.

[source,yaml]
----
...
compute:
...
  vsphere:
      zones:
        - <failure_domain1_name>

>         - <failure_domain2_name>

Author: Updated to `zone_tag_1` and `zone_tag_2`user-replaced values.

>         - <failure_domain2_name>

Reviewer 2: > These do not represent failure domains. This user-defined input represents the zone tags that are created. Slide 8 [1]

this is incorrect

FailureDomain.Name is the string that should be added as a list to MachinePool zones

>         - <failure_domain2_name>

Reviewer: Thanks for keeping me honest, Joseph. I had clearly misinterpreted your slides.

>         - <failure_domain2_name>

Reviewer: Also apologize for the confusion @dfitzmau

...
controlPlane:
...
vsphere:
      zones:
        - <failure_domain1_name>
        - <failure_domain2_name>
...
  vsphere:
    vcenters:
...
    datacenters:
      - <datacenter1_name>
      - <datacenter2_name>
    failureDomains:
    - name: <failure_domain1_name>
      region: <region1_name>

>       zone: 1

Reviewer: Based on slide 9 [1] I think `zone` should specify a zone tag in the region. What is unclear to me, is if a `failureDomain` is required for each zone in region. For example, if my datacenter has 3 clusters in it, would I need a `failureDomain` for cluster 1,2, and 3.

[1] https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1RdRioExW6oAbgfK0DWytR-YHXES2DlHZBpm7x8DTnis/edit#slide=id.g17322bb9019_0_17

Author: Hi @jcpowermac . Would you be OK to chime in on this? One ` failureDomains:` spec covers all datacenters and their clusters?

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//* installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-customizations.adoc [IPI]
//* installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-network-customizations.adoc [IPI]
//* installing-vsphere.adoc [UPI]
//* installing-vsphere-network-customizations.adoc [UPI]
//* installing-restricted-networks-installer-provisioned-vsphere.adoc [IPI]
//* installing-restricted-networks-vsphere.adoc [IPI]

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="installation-vsphere-regions-zones_{context}"]
= VMware vSphere region and zone enablement

> You can deploy an {product-title} cluster to multiple vSphere datacenters, or regions, that run in a single VMware vCenter. Each datacenter can run multiple clusters, or zones. This configuration reduces the risk of a hardware failure or network outage causing your cluster to fail.

Author: Updated based on your suggestion. Yeah, it's true: I tend to pack a lot of punch in the opening paragraph to grab a user's attention, but in this case I do explain things lower in the module. The title should be the focal grabbing point.

> You can also specify multiple regions and zones on a cluster after installation. You must upgrade your existing cluster to {product-title} {product-version} before you configure a multiple region and zone environment.

Author: I might need to remove based on comment on https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OSDOCS-5237

You must create an installation configuration file and then modify for the purposes of region and zone enablement, because deploying a cluster to a single vSphere datacenter is the default installation configuration.

> For {product-title} {product-version}, the default `install-config.yaml` file includes `vcenters` and `failureDomains` fields, so that you can choose to specify multiple datacenters, region, and zone information for your cluster. You can leave these fields blank if you want to install an {product-title} cluster in a vSphere environment that consists of single datacenter running in a VMware vCenter.

Author: Thanks, updated. I removed some anthropomorphism.

The following list describes terms associated with defining zones and regions for your cluster:

* Failure domain: Establishes the relationships between a region and zone. You define a failure domain by using vCenter objects, such as a `datastore` object. A failure domain defines the vCenter location for {product-title} cluster nodes.
* Region: Specifies a vCenter datacenter. You define a region by using a tag from a created tag category, such as `openshift-region`. 

> * Zone: Specifies a vCenter cluster. You define a zone by using a tag from from a created tag category, such as `openshift-zone`. 

Author: Hi @jcpowermac . The tag category names here are just examples? A user could call the tags whatever they want?

Reviewer 2: Tag categories are hard coded - they *must* be openshift-region and openshift-zone.

The *tags* can be anything

Author: Updated. I'm wondering about step 1 in [Configuring regions and zones for a VMware vCenter](https://55767--docspreview.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/installing/installing_vsphere/installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-network-customizations.html#configuring-vsphere-regions-zones_installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-network-customizations): does a user have to explicitly name these exact tag categories? Of are the tag categories automatically created after the installation program creates the vanilla YAML config file?

Reviewer 2: > does a user have to explicitly name these exact tag categories?
yes. 

The user must create two tag categories named: `openshift-region` and `openshift-zone`

The user must create tags that correspond to their arbitrary region/zone labels that is associated via the above tag categories (openshift-region,openshift-zone) that are attached to the defined Datacenter and Cluster in vCenter. 

> Of are the tag categories automatically created after the installation program creates the vanilla YAML config file?

no

Reviewer 2: example
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5401402/223183668-ed8158b7-8f20-4ac5-9c1d-672f7d1deb36.png)

Author: Thanks. I'll update the instructions to inform a user that they must specifically create and name these tag categories.

Author: Sorry to ask, @jcpowermac : What would happen if a user named the tag categories something else?

Reviewer 2: Before install: the installation will fail
After install: :man_shrugging: I think nodes go offline

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//* installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-customizations.adoc [IPI]
//* installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-network-customizations.adoc [IPI]
//* installing-vsphere.adoc [UPI]
//* installing-vsphere-network-customizations.adoc [UPI]
//* installing-restricted-networks-installer-provisioned-vsphere.adoc [IPI]
//* installing-restricted-networks-vsphere.adoc [IPI]

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="installation-vsphere-regions-zones_{context}"]
= VMware vSphere region and zone enablement

> You can deploy an {product-title} cluster to multiple vSphere datacenters that run in a single VMware vCenter. Each datacenter can run multiple clusters. This configuration reduces the risk of a hardware failure or network outage causing your cluster to fail.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can deploy an {product-title} cluster to multiple vSphere datacenters that run in a single VMware vCenter. Each datacenter can run multiple clusters. This configuration reduces the risk of a hardware failure or network outage that can cause your cluster to fail.
```

[IMPORTANT]
====

> The VMware vSphere region and zone enablement feature is only available with a newly installed cluster, because this feature requires the vSphere Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver as the default storage driver in the cluster.

Author: Updated as per https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/58180

> The VMware vSphere region and zone enablement feature is only available with a newly installed cluster, because this feature requires the vSphere Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver as the default storage driver in the cluster.

Author: Good suggestion. Updated!

A cluster that was upgraded from a previous release defaults to using the in-tree vSphere driver, so you must enable CSI automatic migration for the cluster. You can then configure multiple regions and zones for the upgraded cluster. 
====

> You must create an installation configuration file and then modify for the purposes of region and zone enablement, because deploying a cluster to a single vSphere datacenter is the default installation configuration.

Reviewer 3: This is hard to follow due to the long sentence and some grammar issues. I recommend rewording as shorter sentences to clear things up.
```suggestion
The default installation configuration deploys a cluster to single vSphere datacenter. If you want to deploy a cluster to multiple vSphere data centers, you must create an installation configuration file that enables the region and zone feature.
```
I think that this changes the meaning, but I hope that it illustrates my point. :)

The default `install-config.yaml` file includes `vcenters` and `failureDomains` fields, where you can specify multiple vSphere datacenters and clusters for your {product-title} cluster. You can leave these fields blank if you want to install an {product-title} cluster in a vSphere environment that consists of single datacenter.

The following list describes terms associated with defining zones and regions for your cluster:

* Failure domain: Establishes the relationships between a region and zone. You define a failure domain by using vCenter objects, such as a `datastore` object. A failure domain defines the vCenter location for {product-title} cluster nodes.
* Region: Specifies a vCenter datacenter. You define a region by using a tag from the  `openshift-region` tag category. 

> * Zone: Specifies a vCenter cluster. You define a zone by using a tag from the `openshift-zone` tag category. 

Reviewer 3: This should be a separate reference module and formatted as a definition list. See https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/modules/install-openshift-common-terms.adoc for an example

[NOTE]
====
If you plan on specifying more than one failure domain in your `install-config.yaml` file, you must create tag categories, zone tags, and region tags in advance of creating the configuration file.
====

You must create a vCenter tag for each vCenter datacenter, which represents a region. Additionally, you must create a vCenter tag for each cluster than runs in a datacenter, which represents a zone. After you create the tags, you must attach each tag to their respective datacenters and clusters. 

> The following table outlines an example of the relationship among regions, zones, and tags for a configuration with multiple vSphere datacenters running in a single VMware vCenter.

Reviewer 3: Reference data should go in a separate reference module
